## My road to coding enlightenment

I am not claiming to be fully enlightened, I am just at the beginning. I am jotting down the progression I have had to get to where I am currently.

My first programming-ish experience was learning Excel during my undergraduate Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering degree (2009-2013). I also took an Intro to Numerical Computing class but I don't remember much about it apart from the fact that it was pretty boring and I didn't really see how it applied to any of my other academic work. The first time I heard about Python was from a friend who mentioned how useful it was, he had a big book about it. I thought maybe that would be something useful to learn more about someday but parked it at that stage, it was more a buzzword than anything.

After receiving my undergraduate degree I worked for a civil engineering consulting firm. I was mostly in the field out on construction sites battling contractors but I had some mind-numbing days in the office copy-and-pasting stuff in Excel for hours on end, the same repetitive clicking process over and over, and I thought this doesn't feel like I should be doing it this way, there must be a better way, but at that point I didn't have the skills to do it any other way. 

I started my Masters degree in 2016, and again heavily used Excel for most of my assignments. Then I took Introduction to Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering, which word on the street was that you had to learn programming in order to effectively complete the course. In the first day of class the professor (one of my favorites in all my academic career) said while it's technically possible to complete all coursework using Excel, and programming is not a requirement for this course, you will find things much easier if you can learn some basic programming. MATLAB was the tool of choice, using the Spyder IDE. This was my first big programming learning hump, figuring out how a loop works was a hair pulling out, bang on the desk in frustration experience, but once I finally got something to work it was like a revelation. I helped a PhD student with some soil testing in the lab, she had created a Python script for loading the lab test data CSV files, doing some analysis and creating some plots. I thought this was so advanced and cool, but had no idea how to create such a script.

I started my PhD in 2019. I was determined to learn Python so signed up for Charles Severance's Python for Everybody course on Coursera. This course was well-structured and interesting, I worked my way through the quizzes and assignments, but I still didn't quite get how to connect the things and apply them in my PhD work, once you start making these connections and think that's when things really start taking off.

Next I started spending some time at a consulting firm whose work is quantitative interpretation of geophysical (seismic) data.  

Agile Scientific blog, Software Underground

StackOverflow, if there are 1 or 2 upvotes you are most likely doing something the wrong way, Google-fu

CrashCourse, where the name “bug” came from 

Christian told me learn VS Code, GitHub

The Code Issue

CS50 super fun, CS50P, learned some C, CSS, Flask, HTML, Jinja, created F1 betting web application, Amazon hosting

Now fully immersed, Hacker News, Sonic Pi, Dylan Beattie talks, BitWarden, NetNewsWire RSS, One Foot Tsunami, Simon Willison’s Weblog

Where to next, OOP, tests, documentation, publishing a package
